# IAR C-SPY Debugger extension for VS Code prototype

`iar-vsc-debug` is a VS Code extension based on `vscode-mock-debug`, an example project
from Microsoft for developing a Debug Adapter using the TypeScript SDK.
The extension provides a Debug Adapter that connects to an existing Embedded Workbench installation,
thus enabling minimal C-SPY debugging functionality in VS Code via the `common/bin/CSpyServer2.exe` executable
in the Embedded Workbench installation of choice.

The Debug Adapter implementation for C-SPY can be found in `src/dap/cspyDebug.ts`.

Please note that this is only a prototype and it is not meant for public distribution.

## Installing the `iar-vsc` extension

To simplify the setup of a C-SPY launch for new projects, you should install the extension
`IAR for Visual Studio Code` (`iar-vsc`) from the marketplace (https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=pluyckx.iar-vsc).
Note that `iar-vsc` has been added to the recommendations for the workspace shipped with the debug extension.
This extension will create a default launch configuration which reuses some of the settings from `iar-vsc`, among which the
Embedded Workbench installation location.

## Configuring the Embedded Workbench installation

If the `iar-vsc` extension is installed, the debug extension will automatically use the same installation selected in it.
Otherwise the default `launch.json` file generated by the debug extension needs to be adjusted manually.

The debug extension has been tested with Embedded Workbench for ARM version 8.50.6 and newer.

## Debugging the sample workspace

To run the debug extension, open the workspace `iar-vsc-debug.vscode-workspace` in VS Code, and run `npm install` in the terminal.
Then, launch the `Extension + Server` configuration from the debugging panel.
The launch will default to an the `samples/GettingStarted` VSCode workspace, containing an
Embedded Workbench project ready to be debugged.

## Debugging your own projects

To debug your own Embedded Workbench projects you should launch at least once with EW itself, so that
the `settings` folder in your project is populated with configuration files.

Then, open up `.vscode/launch.json` created by the debug extension within the project folder and make sure
you have a valid C-SPY launch configuration.

Note that the variables window only works on very recent EW builds (i.e. builds from aug 2020 and later).
Previous EW versions I tested had bugs where some C-SPY services either wouldn't start, or would start with pipes
instead of sockets.
